 The following is further provided:

(1) Where a resident individual has made ODI without control in a foreign entity that subsequently acquires or sets-up a subsidiary/SDS, such resident individual shall not acquire control in such foreign entity.

(2) Overseas investment by way of capitalisation, swap of securities, rights/bonus, gift, and inheritance shall be categorised as ODI or OPI based on the nature of the investment. However, where the investment, whether listed or unlisted, by way of sweat equity shares, minimum qualification shares and shares/interest under Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP)/Employee Benefits Scheme does not exceed 10 per cent of the paid-up capital/stock of the foreign entity and does not lead to control, such Investment shall be categorised as OPI.

(3) In case of swap of securities both the legs of the transaction shall comply with FEMA provisions, as applicable. However, where swap of securities results in acquisition of any equity capital which is not in conformity with the OI Rules/Regulations, e.g*.,* ODI in foreign entity engaged in financial services activity, foreign entity having a subsidiary/SDS, *etc.,* such equity capital must be disinvested within a period of six months from the date of such acquisition.

(4) Resident individuals are not permitted to transfer any overseas investment by way of gift to a person resident outside India.

(5) Shares/interest under ESOP/Employee Benefits Scheme - AD banks may allow remittances, towards acquisition of the shares/interest in an overseas entity under the scheme offered directly by the issuing entity or indirectly through a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) /SDS. Where the investment qualifies as OPI, the necessary reporting in Form OPI shall be done by the employer concerned in accordance with regulation 10(3) of OI Regulations. Where such investment qualifies as ODI, the resident individual concerned shall report the transaction in Form FC.

(6) Foreign entities are permitted to repurchase the shares issued to residents in India under any ESOP Scheme provided (i) the shares were issued in accordance with the rules/regulations framed under FEMA, 1999, (ii) the shares are being repurchased in terms of the initial offer document, and (iii) necessary reporting is done through the AD bank.

(7) Though there is no limit on the amount of remittance made towards acquisition of shares/interest under ESOP/Employee Benefits Scheme or acquisition of sweat equity shares, such remittances shall be reckoned towards the LRS limit of the person concerned.

## **23. Overseas investment by a person resident in India, other than an Indian entity or a resident individual**

A person resident in India, other than an Indian entity or a resident individual may make overseas investment in accordance with schedule IV of OI Rules. The following is further provided:

(1) Mutual Funds (MFs) and Venture Capital Funds (VCFs)/Alternative Investment Funds (AIFs) registered with SEBI may, in accordance with paragraph 2 of schedule IV of OI Rules, invest overseas in securities as stipulated by SEBI within an overall cap of USD 7 billion and USD 1.5 billion, respectively. Further, a limited number of qualified MFs are permitted to invest cumulatively up to USD 1 billion in overseas Exchange Traded Funds, as may be permitted by SEBI. Such investment shall be considered as OPI irrespective of whether the securities are listed or not.

(2) MFs/VCFs/AIFs desirous of availing this facility may approach SEBI for necessary permission. Operational modalities regarding eligibility criteria, individual limits, identification of recognised stock exchanges, investible universe, monitoring of aggregate ceilings, *etc.*, shall be as per the guidelines issued by SEBI. General permission is available to such investors for sale of securities so acquired.

(3) An AD bank, including its overseas branch, may acquire or transfer foreign securities in terms of host country regulations/laws, as applicable, in the normal course of its banking business. The provisions contained in OI Rules/Regulations shall not apply to such acquisition or transfer of foreign securities by an AD bank.

(4) A bank in India, being licensed by the Reserve Bank under the provisions of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, may acquire the shares of Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT) as per the by-laws of SWIFT, provided the bank has been permitted by the Reserve Bank for admission to the 'SWIFT User's Group in India' as a member.

(5) Any overseas investment by the sole proprietorship or unregistered partnership firms may be made by the proprietor concerned or the individual partners concerned within their limit available under the LRS in accordance with schedule III of the OI Rules. If the proposed investment is in strategic sector, any application for making overseas investment in excess of the LRS limit may be made under the government approval route.

(6) Overseas investmen