rlying exposure, they must ensure the existence of a valid underlying contracted exposure which has been not hedged using any other derivative contract and should be in a position to establish the same, if required.

(b) Recognized Stock Exchanges shall provide a facility to users intending to take position beyond USD 100 million (or equivalent) in contracts involving INR, in all exchanges put together, to designate an Authorised Dealer / Custodian for the purpose of monitoring transactions of the user to ensure that:

(i) All positions of the user in all contracts involving INR, across all the Recognized Stock Exchanges put together, are backed by contracted exposure;

(ii) The same exposure has not been hedged using any another derivative contract;

(iii) The notional amount and tenor of the derivative contract does not exceed the value and tenor of the exposure;

(iv) In case the exposure ceases to exist, in full or in part, the user has appropriately adjusted the hedge to ensure adherence to (iii) above, unless the original derivative contract is assigned against any other unhedged exposure. No adjustment to the hedge is required to be made if, in the considered opinion of the Authorised Dealer, the change in exposure is not material;

(v) In cases where the value of the exposure falls below the notional of the derivative, the notional should be suitably adjusted unless such divergence has occurred on account of changes in the market value of the exposure, in which case the user may, at his discretion, continue with the derivative contract till its original maturity. No adjustment to the hedge is required to be made if, in the considered opinion of the Authorised Dealer, the change in exposure is not material;

(vi) Where the value of the exposure is not ascertainable with certainty, derivative contracts may be booked on the basis of reasonable estimates. Such estimates should be reviewed periodically to ensure compliance with (iv) and (v) above.

(c) For users taking positions beyond the aforesaid limit of USD 100 million, Recognized Stock Exchanges shall provide information on day-end open positions as well as intra-day highest position of the users to the designated Authorised Dealer / Custodian.

(d) Recognized Stock Exchanges shall ensure that the participants on exchanges are made adequately aware of the risks associated with exchange traded currency derivatives.

(ii) Price / premium of exchange traded foreign exchange derivative contracts involving INR shall be quoted in INR. Price / premium of EUR-USD and GBP-USD cross currency contracts shall be quoted in USD and USD-JPY contract shall be quoted in JPY.

(iii) Exchange traded foreign exchange derivative contracts, involving INR or otherwise, shall be cash settled in INR. The settlement price for exchange traded foreign exchange derivative contracts involving INR shall be the corresponding Financial Benchmarks India Pvt. Ltd. (FBIL) Reference Rate on the last trading day of the contract. For permitted exchange traded foreign exchange derivative contracts involving INR where FBIL Reference Rates are not available and for other currency pairs, the mechanism for arriving at the settlement price shall be decided by the Recognised Stock Exchange with the approval of SEBI.

(iv) Premium for foreign exchange option shall be payable in INR based on the FBIL Reference Rates. If the corresponding FBIL Reference Rate is not available, the mechanism for arriving at the payable amount shall be decided by the Recognized Stock Exchange with the approval of SEBI.

(v) The trading and clearing membership of the foreign exchange derivative segment of the Recognized Stock Exchange / Recognised Clearing Corporation shall be separate from the membership of other segments and shall be subject to the regulations / directions issued by the SEBI.

(vi) Recognized Stock Exchanges and Authorised Dealers may call for such documents from users as they deem necessary for complying with the requirements of these Directions.

(vii) Recognised Stock Exchanges and recognised Clearing Corporations authorised under Section 10(1) of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 shall submit to the Reserve Bank of India such returns, documents and other information as may be required, in the format and time frame specified, if any. Also, they shall report any major development relating to its functioning of the permitted products such as market abuse, market disruption, adverse finding relating its functioning or regulatory action, etc., at the earliest to the Chief General Manager, Financial Markets Regulation Department, Reserve Bank of India (via [email\)](mailto:cgmfmrd@rbi.org.in).

(viii) The Reserve Bank may from time to time modify the eligibility criteria for the participants, modify participant-wise position limits, prescribe margins and / or impose specific margins for identified participants, fix or modify any other prudential limits, or take such other actions as deemed ne