ions, unless the context otherwise requires:

(a) 'Anticipated exposure' means currency risk arising on account of current or capital account transactions permissible under the FEMA, 1999 or any rules or regulations made thereunder, that are proposed to be entered into in future.

(b) 'Contracted exposure' means currency risk arising on account of current or capital account transactions permissible under the FEMA, 1999 or any rules or regulations made thereunder, that have been entered into.

Explanation for the purpose of (a) and (b):

(i) The term 'exposure' shall also include exposures arising out of transactions between residents that are denominated in a foreign currency or are linked to a foreign currency or are linked to a benchmark denominated in foreign currency, but settled in INR; and

(ii) The term 'exposure' shall not include exposures arising from foreign exchange derivative and foreign currency interest rate derivative transactions undertaken for purposes other than hedging.

(c) 'Currency risk' means the potential for loss on account of movement in exchange rates of INR against a foreign currency or on account of movement in exchange rates of one foreign currency against another or on account of movement of interest rate applicable to a foreign currency.

(d) 'Deliverable foreign exchange derivative contract' means an OTC foreign exchange derivative contract other than a non-deliverable foreign exchange derivative contract (NDDC).

(e) 'Electronic Trading Platform (ETP)' shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in the Para 2(1)(iii) of [the Electronic Trading Platforms \(Reserve Bank\) Directions,](https://rbi.org.in/Scripts/NotificationUser.aspx?Id=11385&Mode=0)  [2018 dated October 05, 2018,](https://rbi.org.in/Scripts/NotificationUser.aspx?Id=11385&Mode=0) as amended from time to time.

(f) 'Exchange traded currency derivative' shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in the Regulation 2(xvi) of the Foreign Exchange Management (Foreign exchange derivative contracts) Regulations, 2000 [\(Notification no. FEMA.25/2000-](https://rbi.org.in/Scripts/BS_FemaNotifications.aspx?Id=179) [RB dated May 03, 2000\)](https://rbi.org.in/Scripts/BS_FemaNotifications.aspx?Id=179), as amended from time to time.

(g) 'Foreign currency interest rate derivative contract' means a financial contract which derives its value from the change in the interest rate of a foreign currency and which is for settlement at a future date, i.e. any date later than the spot settlement date, provided that contracts involving currencies of Nepal and Bhutan shall not qualify under this definition.

(h) 'Foreign exchange derivative contract' means a financial contract which derives its value from the change in the exchange rate of two currencies at least one of which is not Indian Rupee and which is for settlement at a future date, i.e. any date later than the spot settlement date, provided that contracts involving currencies of Nepal and Bhutan shall not qualify under this definition.

(i) 'Hedging' means the activity of undertaking a foreign exchange derivative / foreign currency interest rate derivative transaction to offset the impact of an anticipated or a contracted exposure.

(j) 'Leveraged derivative' means an OTC derivative whose potential pay-out during the tenure of the derivative can be more than the notional amount of the contract or whose pay-out calculation involves effective multiplication, by a factor of more than 1.0 of either the notional amount or the underlying rate / price / index.

(k) 'Mid-market mark' means the price of the derivative that is free from profit, credit reserve, hedging, funding, liquidity, or any other costs or adjustments.

(l) 'Net worth' shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in the Section 2(57) of the Companies Act, 2013.

(m) 'Non-deliverable foreign exchange derivative contract (NDDC)' means an OTC foreign exchange derivative contract in which there is no delivery of the notional amount of the underlying currencies of the contract and which is cash-settled.

(n) 'Over-the-counter (OTC) derivative' means a derivative (deliverable or nondeliverable) other than those which are traded on Recognised Stock Exchanges and shall include those traded on electronic trading platforms (ETPs).

(o) 'Recognised clearing corporation' shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in Regulation 2(1)(p) of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 2018 dated October 03, 2018, as amended from time to time.

(p) 'Recognised stock exchange' shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in Regulation 2(1)(q) of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) (Stock Exchanges and Clearing Corporations) Regulations, 2018 dated October 03, 2018, as amended from time to time.

(q) 'Turnover' shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in the Section 2(91) of the Companies Act, 2013.

(r) 'User' shall mean any person as defined in the Section 2(u) of