aspects of restructuring of project loans before commencement of commercial operations would be governed by the provisions of Parts B1 and B2 of this Master Circular. Restructuring of project loans after commencement of commercial operations will also be governed by these instructions.

4.2.15.6.2 Any change in the repayment schedule of a project loan caused due to an increase in the project outlay on account of increase in scope and size of the project, would not be treated as restructuring if:

a) The increase in scope and size of the project takes place before commencement of commercial operations of the existing project.

b) The rise in cost excluding any cost-overrun in respect of the original project is 25% or more of the original outlay.

c) The bank re-assesses the viability of the project before approving the enhancement of scope and fixing a fresh DCCO.

d) On re-rating, (if already rated) the new rating is not below the previous rating by more than one notch.

4.2.15.6.3 Multiple revisions of the DCCO and consequential shift in repayment schedule for equal or shorter duration (including the start date and end date of revised repayment schedule) will be treated as a single event of restructuring provided that the revised DCCO is fixed within the respective time limits stipulated at Paragraph 4.2.15.2(iv) above, and all other terms and conditions of the loan remained unchanged.

4.2.15.6.4 Banks, if deemed fit, may extend DCCO beyond the respective time limits stipulated at Paragraph 4.2.15.2(iv) above; however, in that case, banks will not be able to retain the 'standard' asset classification status of such loan accounts.

4.2.15.6.5 In all the above cases of restructuring where regulatory forbearance has been extended, the Boards of banks should satisfy themselves about the viability of the project and the restructuring plan.

*4.2.15.7 Asset classification and Income recognition for projects under implementation relating to Deferment of DCCO and Cost Overruns*

4.2.15.7.1 In cases where DCCO is extended within the periods stipulated in Paragraph 4.2.15.2(iii) and funding of cost overruns complies with the thresholds/conditions stipulated in Paragraph 4.2.15.5, such loans shall be treated as 'standard' in all respects.

4.2.15.7.2 In cases where DCCO is extended within the periods stipulated in Paragraph 4.2.15.2(iii), but funding of cost overruns does not comply with the thresholds/conditions stipulated in Paragraph 4.2.15.5, such loans shall be treated as 'restructured standard' and attract a provision of 5 per cent from the date of such restructuring till the commencement of commercial operations or 2 years from the date of restructuring, whichever is later. These loans may be upgraded to 'standard' category once the entire project commences commercial operations.

4.2.15.7.3 In cases where DCCO is extended beyond the periods stipulated in Paragraph 4.2.15.2 (iii) but up to periods stipulated in Paragraph 4.2.15.2(iv) and funding of cost overruns complies with the thresholds/conditions stipulated in Paragraph 4.2.15.5, such loans shall be treated as 'restructured standard' and attract a provision of 5 per cent from the date of such restructuring till the commencement of commercial operations or 2 years from the date of restructuring, whichever is later. These loans may be upgraded to 'standard' category once the entire project commences commercial operations.

24

4.2.15.7.4 In cases where DCCO is extended beyond the periods stipulated in paragraph 4.2.15.2(iii) but up to periods stipulated in paragraph 4.2.15.2(iv) and funding of cost overruns does not comply with the thresholds/conditions stipulated in paragraph 4.2.15.5, such loans will be treated as 'non-performing asset'. These loans may be upgraded to 'standard' category only after the account performs satisfactorily during the 'monitoring period' post DCCO;

4.2.15.7.5 Any changes to the major terms and conditions of the original project loans (i.e. promoters equity contribution, interest rate, etc.) of a borrower with financial difficulties, except what is specifically allowed such as changes in the DCCO, consequential parallel shift in repayment schedule and funding of cost overruns, as permitted within the thresholds, shall be treated as an event of 'restructuring' requiring the accounts to be classified as 'non-performing asset' and provided for accordingly. These loans may be upgraded to 'standard' category only after the account performs satisfactorily during the 'monitoring period' post DCCO.

4.2.15.7.6 Banks may treat need based working capital sanctioned to projects after commencement of commercial operations as 'standard' irrespective of the asset classification category of the project loans, subject to satisfactory performance of such working capital accounts. Banks shall ensure that assessment of working capital loans are strictly need based and banks shall desist from over-financing. If the project loans classified as 'non