mobilised under STBD by other designated banks) will be treated as interbank liabilities and hence exempted from CRR and SLR."

9. The existing sub-paragraph 2.2.1 (vi) has been amended to read as follows:

"From the date of issue of this circular, interest in respect of STBD shall be denominated and paid in Indian Rupee only. Redemption of principal at maturity will, at the option of depositor, be either in Indian Rupee equivalent of the deposited gold based on the prevailing price of gold at the time of redemption, or in gold. The option in this regard shall be obtained in writing from the depositor at the time of making the deposit and shall be irrevocable. Any premature redemption shall be in Indian Rupee equivalent or gold at the discretion of the designated banks. All STBDs made prior to the issue of this circular will continue to be governed by their existing terms and conditions"

10. The existing sub-paragraph 2.2.2 (vii) stands deleted

"Reserve Bank of India will maintain the Gold Deposit Accounts denominated in gold in the name of the designated banks that will in turn hold sub-accounts of individual depositors."

11. The new sub-paragraph 2.4 (iii) has been inserted to read as follows:

"The designated banks shall take steps to enter into agreement with sufficient number of CPTCs."

12. The new paragraph 2.5 on GMS Mobilisation, Collection & Testing Agent (GMCTA) has been inserted to read as follows:

i. Jewellers/Refiners certified as CPTCs by BIS and meeting additional eligibility conditions set by IBA may be recognised by designated banks as GMCTA.

ii. Jewellers or refiners functioning as GMCTA shall assay and refine gold received from depositors; undertake vaulting and movement of refined gold to banks as per bi-partite agreement with the designated banks.

iii. As GMCTAs will carry out functions of CPTC, the instructions applicable to CPTCs as mentioned at para 2.4 above shall also be applicable to GMCTA.

iv.The designated banks shall pay a maximum of 1.5% as incentive/handling charges to the gold handling/ mobilizing functions performed by GMCTAs.

13. The new sub-paragraph 2.8.1 (iii) has been inserted to read as follows:

"Lend the gold to other designated banks participating in the Scheme for granting GML subject to following conditions:

(a) Interest Rate: The interest rate to be charged on interbank lending of gold mobilised from these deposits shall be decided by banks.

(b) Repayment: The repayment shall be in INR or in locally sourced (India Good Delivery Standard) IGDS/ LGDS (LBMA's Good Delivery Standards) gold as agreed by the participating banks.

(c) Tenor: As the purpose for interbank lending is to provide gold to jewellery manufacturers/ jewellery exporters under GML, the tenor of interbank lending of gold shall be as per our [circular DBOD.No.IBD.BC.71/23.67.001/2006-07 dated April 3, 2007](https://www.rbi.org.in/Scripts/NotificationUser.aspx?Id=3387&Mode=0) and the Foreign Trade Policy and the Handbook of Procedures issued by DGFT, as amended from time to time."

14. The Reserve Bank of India [Master Direction No.DBR.IBD.45/23.67.003/2015-16](https://www.rbi.org.in/Scripts/BS_ViewMasDirections.aspx?id=10084)  [dated October 22, 2015](https://www.rbi.org.in/Scripts/BS_ViewMasDirections.aspx?id=10084) on Gold Monetization Scheme, 2015 has been updated incorporating the above changes.

15. The reporting format given at Annex-2 of the Master Direction has been revised and Annex-3 has been added.

Yours faithfully

(Prakash Baliarsingh) Chief General Manager